Course Project
Due: April 30
Assignment submission policy.
1.Submit the results in a pdf file.
2.All assignments should be submitted by the due date. There will be 20%
penalty per day for late submissions. No grade will be given to homework submitted 5 days after the due date.
3. Each group prepares a final report as a team. Collaboration within a group
is encouraged. Each group member must upload a copy of the final report individually.


Stock Market Prediction (Dataset link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jacksoncrow/stock-market-dataset/data)
This dataset contains historical daily prices for all tickers currently trading
on NASDAQ. The up to date list is available from nasdaqtrader.com. The
1
historic data is retrieved from Yahoo finance via yfinance python package.
You will train machine learning models for stock price prediction based on
this dataset. Inputs and outputs of ML models are given below. Input and
output of ML models are given below.
Input: Historical stock price.
Output: Future stock price

.
Final Report Requirements
Each group needs to submit the original codes and a final report. The final
report should be at least 3 pages written in Word Template or Latex Template for ACM SIG conferences. The final report should include the following
sections
• Group members and Individual contributions
• Introduction and problem description
• Literature review (Summarize the existing studies regarding the selected
topic.)
• Machine learning models, methods, or algorithms
• Experiment Results (Report training loss, testing accuracy, and other metrics which can evaluate the performance of the implementation)
• Conclusion (Summarize the key contribution)
Grading criteria
The final report will be graded in terms of the following aspects:
• Integrity (20 pts): Include all the sections metioned above (10 pts). Meet
the page requirement (at least 3 pages in Word Template or Latex Template) (10pts).
• Clarity (20 pts): The introduction section has clear problem description
(10 pts). The ”ML models, methods, or algorithms” section has clear
definition of ML models and training/testing methods (10 pts).
• Literature review (20 pts): Has literature review section (10 pts). Summarize 3 or more related papers or studies. (10 pts)
• Results (30 pts): Clearly show the simulation results via tables, figures,
or other forms (10 pts). Add 5 pts if one of the following results is added.
(1) Implement an advanced ML model (DNN, CNN, RNN, transformer,
or LLM, etc);
(2) Plot the training loss trajectory (How does the training loss change
with No. of iterations?);
2
(3) Explain whether overfitting or underfitting issues exist and discuss
how to solve these issues.
(4) Ablation studies showing the effects of different hyper-parameters (Effects of the width/ depth of neural networks, the step size of gradient
descent, or the size of the training dataset, etc. );
(5) Computational complexity analysis (No. FLOP operations, Storage
occupancy, or Training/Testing time etc.);
(6) Compare different methods and explain why one method is better than
another one.
Total score does not exceed 30 pts.
• Individual Contribution (10 pts): Group members who made the major
contribution get 10 pts (Implement one of the major parts of the experimental results, or Write at least 50% of the report); Members who made
the assistance contribution get 5 pts.
